Allen Miller photography
Sawatch Digital Graphics?
Sawatch Photography?


Background: Earlier this year, HP offered an enhanced early retirement
program.  I was not eligible, but many friends and collegues were, and
some were caught somewhat by surprise and had not thought about any
alternatives for what they could do if they took the EER offer.
Should HP offer a similar program in the future, when I become
eligible (about 6 years from now), or should I get laid off, I want to
have one or more possible alternatives available.

I have 25 years of photography experience, spanning traditional and
digital methods, using cameras ranging from point-and-shoot to 8x10
large format.

Goal:  While still employed by HP, build a home-based fine-art
photography business.  Learn enough to be able to make a decision by
age 50 (in 2013) about leaving the corporation and going full time.

Retail presence would be in Leadville, with certain "back office"
functions in Fort Collins.

Primary business:  Making and selling my own fine-art landscape
photographs, operating a retail shop from my property in Leadville,
Colorado.  Also carry photographs by a small number of other
photographers.   Perhaps form a photographer's marketing cooperative.

Possible secondary businesses: Freelance commercial photography,
instruction in photographic techniques, creating books and calendars,
graphic design, high-definition video production, computer
consulting.  This is obviously more than I can do at once, so be
careful about branching out from the core photography business.

Financial constraints:  I am willing to invest funds necessary to
produce top-quality images, although I already own much of the
necessary equipment.  The major missing piece is a very high quality
large-format photo printer like the HP Designjet z3100.

Return on equity: My initial goal will be to simply cover basic
expenses such as film, processing, ink, paper, and certain travel.
Basically a subsidized hobby.  Over time, the cost and income
structure of this kind of business will become more clear, and a
decision about whether I can actually make a living doing this.


Questions for accountant/lawyer:

Business entity structure: SP/LLC/etc?

Business name registration, trademarks, etc.

Personal property vs property owned by the business? Cameras,
computers, scanners, printers, copyrights.   Roughly $25k worth at
present.

Setting up business checking/credit accounts.

Doing business out of a home:  Insurance, taxes, zoning,
depreciation/amortization.

What ongoing tax/registration payments are needed?  How to minimize this?

Partners/employees:  Selling other's work on consignment, forming a
"co-op", other possibilies.

Accepting credit card payments.

Present net worth ~$250k, mostly not liquid: Real estate equity,
401(k), stock options.  Will fund start-up costs out-of-pocket or
through relatively modest borrowing (no more than $15,000).

Accounting for expenses when there are business and personal
comingling.  Equipment, space in a home-based business, money.

I will likely be purchasing a very expensive ($8000) piece of
equipment for this business.  How to account for this.  Can the
business purchase this?  What are the sales/use tax implications?

Mac-based accounting software.  I'm not at all impressed with Quicken
for the Mac.  No experience with QuickBooks, Peachtree, or MYOB.


Questions for Leadville city hall/Lake county:

Verify that a retail business is OK at my address.
Business license, tax collections, etc.
Get PO Box
Phone service.

$Date: 2007/10/26 21:16:25 $ $Revision: 1.3 $ 
